# CapstoneProject
Git Repo for the Chain Puzzle Generating Website Capstone Project

The website is an interface in which the user can input a sentence into and then the site will generate a set of word puzzle in which the solution to each individual puzzle is a
word from the originally inputted sentence. The user can then download these puzzles as a PDF file as well as the set of solutions. The user can select puzzle types that may be 
randomly generated by the website.

This project was created as a different kind of word puzzle generator than the current ones present. This form of puzzle generation promotes working together in groups with 
friends or family.

<h1> Contents </h1>

<h3>index.html:</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the main webpage of the site. This page includes a text input in which the user types in the sentence that will be utilized to generate the puzzles.
It also includes a check-box list in which the user can select the type of puzzles they would like the site to create. Lastly, thiis page has a generate button in which the user will be taken to the secondary webpage.
<h3>style.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompanies the index.html file and stylizes and formats the main webpage.
<h3>downloadpage.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the webpage that a user is taken to when the select to generate puzzles. This webpage contains two mian buttons, one
to download the set of puzzles and one to download the solutions to said puzzles. A back button is present that will take the user back to the main webpage.
<h3>downloadstyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompanies the downloadpage.html file, and stylizes and formats the download webpage.
<h3>about.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the about page.
<h3>aboutstyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the about.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>acrostic.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the page that describes acrostic puzzles.
<h3>acrosticstyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the acrostic.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>double.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the page that describes double puzzles.
<h3>doublestyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the double.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>quote.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the page that describes drop quote puzzles.
<h3>quotestyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the quote.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>wordsearch.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the page that describes word search puzzles.
<h3>wordsearchstyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the wordsearch.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>conjunction.html</h3> This file contains the HTML code for the page that describes conjunction junction puzzles.
<h3>conjunctionstyle.css</h3> This file contains the CSS code that accompnies the conjunction.html file. This code stylizes and formats the webpage.
<h3>Purple Petals 2019(4).png</h3> This file is the image file that serves as a background to the webpages of the site.
<h3>words ERD.png</h3> This file contains the ER Diagram for the design of the word table within the MySQL Database.
<h3>main website page.png</h3> This file contains the design of the main webpage.
<h3>download website page.png</h3> This file contains the design of the download webpage.
<h3>words.mysql</h3> This file contains the MYSQL code for the "words" table.
<h3>quotes.mysql</h3> This file contains the MYSQL code for the "quotes" table.



<h1> Implementation </h1>

Create an Amazon Web Services account: https://aws.amazon.com/free/?trk=ps_a131L0000085EJuQAM&trkCampaign=acq_paid_search_brand&sc_channel=ps&sc_campaign=acquisition_US&sc_publisher=google&sc_category=core-main&sc_country=US&sc_geo=NAMER&sc_outcome=acq&sc_detail=amazon%20web%20services&sc_content=Brand_amazon_web_services_e&sc_segment=423740514695&sc_medium=ACQ-P|PS-GO|Brand|Desktop|SU|Core-Main|Core|US|EN|Text&s_kwcid=AL!4422!3!423740514695!e!!g!!amazon%20web%20services&ef_id=CjwKCAjwh5qLBhALEiwAioods1jPOAZd0cz9TFRrLZo3J0C-mOG8hkZwf7Wx5WiVBHGxdmG_Ph3oThoCtbAQAvD_BwE:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!4422!3!423740514695!e!!g!!amazon%20web%20services&all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Types=*all&awsf.Free%20Tier%20Categories=*all

Create an EC2 Instance
Download XAMPP onto Windows Server
Download files into HTDOCS folder
Label folder with files "dashboard" and rename original dashboard folder
Create MySQL database
Create MySQL table
(video tutorial (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QtdbGIvLJKo))

<h3>References utilized for the creation of this project:</h3>
How to Host a Dynamic Website on AWS EC2 Instance || How to Deploy a PHP Website on AWS EC2 Instance: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QtdbGIvLJKo
